# 217. Contains Duplicate

https://leetcode.com/problems/contains-duplicate/

Given an integer array nums, return true if any value appears at least twice in the array, and return false if every element is distinct.

Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,1]
Output: true
```
Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,4]
Output: false
```
Example 3:
```
Input: nums = [1,1,1,3,3,4,3,2,4,2]
Output: true
```

# Solution

## Approach 1: Brute Force

### Intuition:
The brute force approach compares each element with every other element in the array to check for duplicates. If any duplicates are found, it returns true. This approach is straightforward but has a time complexity of O(n^2), making it less efficient for large arrays.

### Explanation:
The brute force approach involves comparing each element in the array with every other element to check for duplicates. If any duplicates are found, return true, otherwise return false.

### Code [TLE]:
```py
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        n = len(nums)

        for i in range(n - 1):
            for j in range(i + 1, n):
                if nums[i] == nums[j]:
                    return True

        return False
```

The time complexity of this approach is O(n^2), where n is the length of the array.
so, this approach is not efficient for large arrays -> TLE

## Approach 2: Sorting
### Intuition:
The sorting approach sorts the array in ascending order and then checks for adjacent elements that are the same. If any duplicates are found, it returns true. Sorting helps in bringing duplicates together, simplifying the check. However, sorting has a time complexity of O(n log n).

### Explanation:
Another approach is to sort the array and then check for adjacent elements that are the same. If any duplicates are found, return true, otherwise return false.

### Code:
```py
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        nums.sort()
        n = len(nums)

        for i in range(1, n):
            if nums[i-1] == nums[i]:
                return True

        return False
```

The time complexity of this approach is O(n log n), where n is the length of the array.

## Approach 3: Hash Set
### Intuition:
The hash set approach uses a hash set data structure to store encountered elements. It iterates through the array, checking if an element is already in the set. If so, it returns true. Otherwise, it adds the element to the set. This approach has a time complexity of O(n) and provides an efficient way to check for duplicates.

### Explanation:
A more efficient approach is to use a hash set data structure to store the encountered elements. While iterating through the array, if an element is already present in the hash set, return true. Otherwise, add the element to the hash set. If the loop completes without finding any duplicates, return false.

### Code:
```py
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        seen = set()
        for num in nums:
            if num in seen:
                return True
            seen.add(num)
        return False
```
The time complexity of this approach is O(n), where n is the length of the array.

## Approach 4: Hash Map
```py
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        seen = {}

        for i in nums:
            if i in seen:
                return True
            seen[i] = True

        return False
```